## Warmup
Go to your favorite website.  

* Look at it in detail, from a programmer's perspective.
* What things could program?
* If you wrote it in rails what models would you need?
* What things are not possible yet?


# Week 5!

## Central question

How do we identify which user is using our app?

## Unit overview

* Learn how to write tests
* Learn about sessions / cookies
* Figure out how to use sessions to identify users
* Build user auth in class
* Add user auth to gCamp

## User auth

By the end of this lesson you should be able to describe the core elements involved in authenticating users in Rails.  Specifically you have 2 objectives:

* Objective 1: Implement user authentication on a sample project
* Objective 2: Describe the core ideas behind user authentication in a writeup## Implement User Auth

## User Auth Exercise

* Clone and setup https://github.com/gSchool/rails-practice-add-authentication
* Follow instructions on the readme
* Ensure that you can sign up, sign in and sign out

## User Auth Analysis

Go to the writeups tab, and submit answers to the following questions:

* In 3 short sentences or less, describe "sign up", "sign in" and "sign out"
* What mechanism in Rails controllers allows you to "remember" data about a user?
* When you define a method in a controller, how can you make it available to the view?
* What line do you need to add to `User` in order to store secure passwords?
* What's the name of the database column that stores the secure password?
* What part of the Rails app actually hashes the password?

If you are done, and bored, start on user auth stories in gCamp.

