## Warmup

Typing Lists

* Five things you would never cook in a pie.
* Five things you would pack for a weekend in Las Vegas.
* Five things you should never bring to a Wedding Shower.
* Five flavors of ice cream that don’t exist.
* Five reasons to exit a building in a hurry.
* Five ways to persuade a bear to leave a campsite.


## Lessons

**Git Branching**

NOTE: by the end of this you shouldn't need to have more than 1 folder for gCamp

-- Emily

**Interpreting wireframes w/ bootstrap**

* What font should you use?
* What border style should you use?
* What are those sticky notes?

-- Aaron

**Rails CRUD**

## 1pm Stretch Review (optional)

* Class methods
* Initializers
* YAML
* Nested arrays
* HAML
* `link_to_unless_current`

## 4pm

**Receiving feedback**

-- Aaron

* http://pivotallabs.com/receive-feedback/
* http://pivotallabs.com/listening-well/

**Blog**

* Pick a topic
* Write a post
* Post to Medium
* Tweet the link (if it isn't auto-tweeted)
* Cross post to LinkedIn?

## Personal Projects

Personal project

**Create a Pivotal Tracker project**

* Name it whatever you like.
* Make sure it's in the gCamp account
* Do NOT make it public
* Invite the following members as owners:
    * jeff@galvanize.it
    * emily@galvanize.it
    * aaron@galvanize.it
    * luke@galvanize.it

Add some tracker stories.  Here are some you can start with:

```
Current State,Estimate,Type,Title
unstarted,1,chore,invite instructors as project members
unstarted,1,chore,create rails app locally
unstarted,1,chore,install twitter bootstrap
unstarted,1,feature,users should be able to see a simple homepage with my personal info
unstarted,1,feature,users who visit your github repo should see a nice looking readme with a heroku url
```

**Create a rails app locally**


NOTE: replace `my-app` with the name of your app

```
cd ~/workspace
rails new my-app --database postgresql
cd my-app
rake db:create
```

Visit http://localhost:3000/

Here's [the Rails guide](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html) with more info about getting started.

**Add twitter bootstrap**

See this guide: https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap-sass#a-ruby-on-rails

NOTES:
- you probably already have the `sass-rails` gem  in your Gemfile so don't copy that line
- when it comes to renaming application.css, do this:

From within your new rails app directory, rename `app/assets/stylesheets/application.css` to `app/assets/stylesheets/application.css.scss`

From the command line, this line should work:

```
mv app/assets/stylesheets/application.css app/assets/stylesheets/application.css.scss
```

Instead of copying the entire bootstrap template, try just adding one component
at a time.

For help with gem versions, check http://rubygems.org

**Add a readme**

Rails generated a README.rdoc file for you.

* `mv README.rdoc README.md`
* Delete everything in it
* Add useful content

Markdown syntax: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax

**Add a simple homepage**

* Add a route like `root "pages#index"`
* Add a controller
* Add a view

**Configure your application layout**

* Add a footer that has "created by <your name>", a link to your linkedin profile and / or other personal website

If you want standard twitter bootstrap goodness, I suggest:

```
<div class="navbar">
  <div class="container">
    <!-- navbar here -->
  </div>
</div>
<div class="container">
  <%= yield %>
</div>
<footer>
  <div class="container">
    <!-- footer stuff here -->
  </div>
</footer>
```

**Get it in git**

On Github.com

* Create project (make it public)

Locally, from your rails directory

```
git init
git remote add origin <your github ssh url>
```

Whenever you are ready, commit and push.

**Deploy it to heroku**

Add the following to your `Gemfile`:

```ruby
gem 'rails_12factor', group: :production
```

Then run:

```
bundle
git add -A
git commit -m "added rails_12factor gem for Heroku"
heroku apps:create
git push heroku master
heroku open
```

After making changes, deploy with:

```
git status
# add if necessary
git push heroku master
```

If you want to read logs it's just `heroku logs -t`

To add a name, see https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/creating-apps#creating-a-named-app - like `heroku apps:create my-special-name`

NOTE: you should _not_ have an sqlite gem anywhere in your app

**Tell us about your project!**

* Go to https://students.gschool.it/cohorts/3/personal_project
* Paste in your full tracker URL (starting with `http`)
* Paste in your full github URL (starting with `http`)
* Paste in your full Heroku URL (starting with `http`)

**Run at the same time as gCamp**

`rails s -p 3001`

## Running Ruby Files

```
mkdir -p ~/workspace/ruby-playground
cd ~/workspace/ruby-playground
atom .
```

Create a file called `my_script.rb`

```
puts "Hello,\nmy name is <enter your name>"
```

Run the file with `ruby my_script.rb`

Outputting text:

* `puts` prints thing you pass it, as nicely as it can
* `p` inspects the thing you pass it (more for debugging)

When reading examples in docs, like http://www.ruby-doc.org/core-2.1.3/Array.html#method-i-shuffle be sure to put a `p` or a `puts` somewhere to see the output.

## 3:00pm

This week in review:

* UML data model diagrams
* Classes (aka entities)
* Attributes (aka properties)
* Methods (aka functions)
* Objects (instantiated from classes)
* Instance variables (from controllers to views)
* Arrays and `.each`
* Git clone / `git remote set-url`
* ERB
* Layouts (application.html.erb) and `yield`
* Routes (named with `as: :some_name`, referred to as `some_name_path`)
* `link_to`
* Bootstrap grids (`.row`, `.col-md-x`)
* _whoa..._

**KWLH Charts**

Take ~10 minutes and fill in a KWLH chart for what you've learned about Rails / Ruby / Git
